# Reflection

The materials covered in this past module remind me of my initial expectations of digital history. That is, sorting and analyzing data in a historical context. Now that I have had the opportunity to use tools like Voyant and Antconc the value of that analysis is much clearer. The ability to statistical analysis of text using a corpus and/or corpora can provide valuable insights that would be unattainable if one was to attempt it manually. Additionally, the ability to switch between narrow and wide perspectives of the data makes interpreting your analysis much easier. An example might be using a spark graph on Voyant to analyze the frequency of the word "justice". We cam look at the use of this word in our data over as long a period as we have data for. Once we identify a period of interest, we can switch to a more narrow perspective and ask why we may see an increase/decrease in that period. Additionally, Voyant can be combined with Anconc to create some powerful visual representations of the analysis generated in Anconc. The tutorial we followed posed this question as an example of a research question we could answer with Antconc: "How are women in romantic comedies described in reviews written by men compared to those written by women?". Once we have the data to answer that question, we could use Voyant to make visuals (such as a word map) that allow someone who does not have an understanding of statistical analysis to visualize the argument being made. This is the part that makes me most excited using these tools. The ability to make insights about a topic I have researched extensively, and present them in a digestible format that can provide value to someone without the need to educate them on all parts of the analysis.

On the topic of argumentation and publishing, why are historians not able to reference digital sources if they are using digital sources? It seems very disingenuous to the reader if the sources cited were not the versions consulted in creating the piece being read. The article *Digital History and Argument* states "Publication patterns remain a primary obstacle. Digital historians who wish to address scholarly audiences still need to do so by bringing their work to traditional publication venues, which may mean reframing a digital project to fit the scope and shape of a journal article or book." As a student of History, and now of Digital History why is it that digital sources are not recognized as scholarly sources? As the article states, the foundations of Digital History's argumentation process are the same as prose. The difference, I would argue, is Digital sources and tools allow for unique and valuable insights compared to "analog history". Perhaps this aversion to using digital sources would be a good research topic. And perhaps digital sources and tools would allow us to make valuable insights into that research.
